08/09/2023-afternoon

Azure PowerShell ---> Azure PowerShell is based on Microsoft's PowerShell scripting language. It is primarily used on Windows environments, although it can also run on macOS and Linux with some limitations.
it is well-suited for complex scripting and automation tasks, thanks to the rich scripting capabilities of PowerShell. It provides access to a wide range of .NET libraries and modules.

Azure CLI ---> Azure CLI is designed to be cross-platform and is implemented in Python. It can run on Windows, macOS, and various Linux distributions.
While Azure CLI can also be used for scripting and automation, it may require more complex scripting to achieve certain tasks compared to Azure PowerShell.


1.ARM templates are a way to describe which resource group you want to create, delete, manage, alter, or do any number of actions to.
2.common syntax - defined language for all ARM templates making it easier to formalize and learn.
3.idempotent - Run the same templates once, twice, or as many times as you like. it will have the same outcome.

Benefits--->
1.idempotent
2.source control --> keep track of all changes to the ARM templates
3.Reuse --> use a combinaion of multiple partial ARM templates to achieve glory - or at least complex templates.
4.Declaration --> specify what you want, not how it is done.
5.No human errors --> Automation means human don't repeat the same mistakes


AZURE ADVISOR

the advisor is always ready to get you a bit more secure, save money, or increase the infrastructure reliability.


-----> SUMMARY <------
1.Azure portal --> intuitive, visual one stop shop for managing all your azure resources
2.Azure CLI --> a text-only way to manage azure resources. A stable,structured way to manage your azure environment.
3.Azure powershell --> fully supported by azure with modules and cmdlets.A tool that fits into many different work flows.
4.Azure cloud shell --> A combination of the portal, the CLI, and powershell. works from anywhere using a browser or mobile app.Many included tools and features, including storage.
5.Azure mobile apps --> use the android and ios mobile apps to be altered and respond to emergerncies, or just perform general maintenance.
6.ARM templates --> is a way to automate management of resources and avoid human errors.


What is a PowerShell cmdlet?

A lightweight command that is used in the PowerShell environment to perform an action