Virtual machines --> 
Features:-

	(a)Infrastructure-as-a-service(IaaS) : manage everything except the hardware.this includes networking components.
	(b)Tools : use the azure portak to manage large number of vms and even hybrid clouds.
	(c)Compliance : use azure blueprints to make your vns comply with company guidline.
	(d)Recommendations : azure will recommend improvements to ensure better security, higher availability and great performance.
	(e)Choice : choose amount of RAM, number of CPUs, windows or linux


Scale Set ---> scale set are identical VMs.They can be activated or deactivated as needed.
a baseline VM for the scale set ensures application stability. a baseline VM is what you copy to make up the scale set VMs.
as resource usage increases, more VMs are activated to take the load.
you only pay for the VM, storage, and networking resources you use. nothing additional for scale sets.


VM and Scale sets are IaaS parts of azure.

APP SERVICES 

1.Web Apps ---> website and online applications hosted on azure's managed platform.
.runs on both windows and linux platforms
.supports a lot of languages, such as .net,java,php,node.js,python,ruby.
.azure integration for easier deployment
.auto-scaling and load balancing

Web apps for containers ---> Deploy and run containerized application in azure.
.a container is completely self contained.
.all dependencies are shipped inside the container.
.deploy anywhere with a consistent experiene.

API Apps --> Expose and connect your data backend
.application programming interface
.no graphical component.no user interface.
.connect other applications programatically
.use a range of programming language


App service is an easy way to host and manage web application.
...App services are a PaaS offering on azure.
...Web apps are used to host web sites and web applications.
...Web apps for containers can host your existing container images.
...API apps can host your data backend services.

Kubernet Services ---> Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration system for automating application deployment,scaling and management
open source - public code base and community involvement in the product.
orchestration - keeps track of lots of parts of a system.makes sure containers are configured correctly to work together.
automatic application deployment -  kubernetes will deploy mire images of containers as needed.

Azure Container Registry (ACR) - Keep track of current valid container images.
			       - Manges files and artifacts for containers.
			       - Feeds container images to ACI and AKS
			       - use azure identity and security features.



Virtual machines on Azure abstract away the physical hardware layer, so you don't need to worry about maintaining physical hardware. Microsoft handles this instead.


